NO,
THIS IS THE SEPTEMBER 17TH
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MEETING
OF THE COMMISSION ON DISABILITY
ISSUES AND OF EVERYBODY HAD A
GOOD SUMMER AND BOTH OUR CHAIR
IS DOING WELL.
I'M NOT GOING TO STEAL HIS
THUNDER BUT HE'S LONG GONE
RIGHT NOW SO YOU GOT ME AND I
AM VICE CHAIR DEALER SO WE GOT
CALLING TO ORDER FIRST SO I
CALLED IT I CALL THIS MEETING
TO ORDER IT FOR 02 AND KENNEDY
TO BE SO KIND AS TO DO THE ROLL
CALL.
>> YES SIR.
OK NEXT WE WILL MOVE ON TO ROLL
CALL WHEN I CALL YOUR NAME IF
YOU COULD PLEASE STATE PRESENT
AND WHERE YOU ARE CALLING FROM
.
SO TO START OFF BY SHAKILA THAT
WOULD BE VICE CHAIR SHEILA AND
I'M CALLING FROM ANN ARBOR WARD
FIVE.
>> THANK YOU COMMISSIONER
MOSADDEQ.
YES.
HI.
>> THIS IS KATHLEEN MOSAICA.
I'M CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR,
MICHIGAN.
>> COMMISSIONER SOLOMON MATTHEW
SOLOMON, COMMISSIONER ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
>> THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
HAWKINS.
COMMISSIONER GOSSAGE UH,
PRESIDENT CALLING IN FROM ANN
ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER PACKARD
BEWES COMMISSIONER AND GUNBOWER
WELL COMMISSIONER ACBAR HERE
FOR CALLING IN FROM ANN ARBOR.
THANK YOU.
AND COMMISSIONER CHONDRITE I
ARNICA CONRAD CALLING IN FROM
ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN.
THANK YOU.
AND THEN WE HAVE COUNCIL MEMBER
EDWIN EDWIN AND DEMINT BOTH
ABSENT AND THAT IS ROBERT.
>> NEXT WE WILL MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC COMMENT.
HEY, AND THAT'S WE GOT THREE
MINUTES FOR PUBLIC COMMENT FOR
EACH INDIVIDUAL.
IS THERE ANYBODY ON IS THERE
ANY PUBLIC COMMENT?
>> THERE'S NO ONE AT THIS TIME
ON FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
ALL RIGHT.
SO NEXT NEXUS OF WHERE WE HAVE
TO APPROVE THE AGENDA FOR THIS
MONTH.
>> CORRECT.
AND SO IF SOMEBODY WOULD MOVE
TO APPROVE THE AGENDA AND
SECOND IT WE'D BE GOOD IF
THERE'S ANY DISCUSSION AFTER
THAT WE CAN DO THAT TO THIS IS
KATHLEEN.
OUR MOVE TO APPROVE I CAN
SECONDED THE COMMISSIONER MAKE
ABOUT OK SO I ANYBODY WHO AND
THE APPROVAL MINUTES ANYBODY
WHO APPROVES RAISE YOUR HAND BY
SAYING OR SAY HI I OPPOSED OK
WELL THAT'S COOL.
>> THAT CARRIES THE NEXT MOVE
ON TO AND A MINUTE APPROVAL THE
MINUTES.
YEP.
AND IF ANYBODY WANTS TO APPROVE
AND SECOND THOSE MINUTES GO
AHEAD.
WELL THAT
ANYBODY APPROVE
OF THIS IS COMMISSIONER I GUESS
OUR GO AHEAD THIS IS
COMMISSIONER MOSAIC AGAIN.
>> I WILL GO AHEAD AND MAKE A
MOTION TO APPROVE.
I GUESS I'LL SECOND IT OK YOU
CAN SECOND IT IS WELL I'M
TRYING TO I FOLLOW RULES A
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENTLY AND I
LET THE FLOOR NOT TOSS OUT THE
SUGGESTION AND LET THE FLOOR DO
SO.
OK AND
HANG WITH ME A SECOND
BECAUSE I ACTUALLY AM READING
THE AND WE HAVE THE CITY
PERSONNEL REPORT THIS KENNEDY
AT LEAST THAT'S ON MY AGENDA.
>> SO YOU GOT SOMETHING I'M
SORRY POINT OF INFORMATION
THERE WAS NO LIKE ALL EVERYONE
SAY I TO AGREE TO TO APPROVE
THE MINUTE OH THERE WASN'T OH
OH I DIDN'T DO THAT OK I'LL
I'LL FAVOR OF IN THE MINUTES
THEY I I OR RAISE YOUR HAND I I
I CAN VOTE FOR THAT OF MOTION
CARRIED OK NOW IT'S MISKIN TURN
LEFT YES CITY REPORT YES I JUST
WANTED TO START OFF BY
WELCOMING EVERYONE BACK I HOPE
EVERYONE HAD A WONDERFUL SUMMER
RECESS NOW THAT WE ARE BACK
JUST BE ON THE LOOKOUT.
THE EMAILS FOR UPDATES THAT'LL
BE COMING FOR EVENTS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT.
I KNOW YOU ALL HAVE PROBABLY
RECEIVED SOME COMMUNICATION
RECENTLY NOT FROM CHAIR DAMON
AND ALSO AS WELL IF THERE'S
ANYTHING YOU WANT TO SHARE WITH
THE COMMISSION IN REGARDS TO
LIKE RESOURCES OR EVENT FEEL
FREE TO EMAIL ME THOSE AND I
CAN GET THAT OUT TO THE
COMMISSION.
BUT BESIDES THAT WE ARE ON
TRACK FOR THE REMAINDER OF OUR
COMMISSION CALENDAR AND I WANT
TO REMIND FOLKS THAT IN
NOVEMBER WE WILL BE DOING
OFFICER ELECTIONS FOR CHAIR AND
VICE CHAIR SO YOU CAN NOMINATE
A COMMISSIONER OR YOU CAN
NOMINATE YOURSELF.
YOU WOULD JUST NEED TO LET ME
KNOW OR CHEER DAMON OR FIND
YOUR KILLER IF YOU ARE
INTERESTED IN NOMINATING
YOURSELF OR ANOTHER
COMMISSIONER FOR CHAIR OR VICE
CHAIR AND THAT IS ALL OF THE
PERSONNEL REPORT I HAVE.
DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS, COMMISSIONER BROZAK
POINT OF OF ORDER NOMINATIONS
CAN ALSO BE GIVEN FROM THE
FLOOR.
>> THEY DON'T HAVE TO COME
THROUGH.
YOU ARE CORRECT.
SO YES.
THAT THERE'S ANYBODY WHO WOULD
LIKE TO NOMINATE SOMEONE A
COMMISSIONER THAT THEY THAT CAN
HAPPEN AS WELL.
BUT IF YOU KNOW IN ADVANCE THAT
YOU'D LIKE TO NOMINATE SOMEONE,
YOU CAN LET LARRY KNOW.
>> THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
AND I WOULD I WOULD LIKE TO
MAKE A QUICK COMMENT.
YEAH.
AND THAT IS BEFORE YOU DO
ELECTIONS YOU MIGHT PEOPLE
MIGHT WANT TO READ THE SECTIONS
ON ELECTIONS IN THE BYLAW JUST
BECAUSE THERE'S CERTAIN
THERE
WERE THERE WAS TERM LIMITS AND
WE HAD TO CHANGE THEM AND SINCE
IT'S AFTER COVID AND ALL THAT,
YOU MIGHT WANT TO LOOK AT THE
AND DECIDE WHAT TO LOOK AT THE
BYLAWS AND DECIDE HOW WHAT YOU
WANT TO DO FROM THERE BECAUSE
THEY'RE A LITTLE DIFFERENT.
I MEAN THEY'VE ALWAYS BEEN
THERE BUT WE'VE HAD A DEVICE
THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR HAVE
BEEN THOSE POSITIONS HAVE BEEN
WELL TAKEN IF WE WANT TO KEEP
DOING THAT, THAT'S FINE.
BUT THEY CALL FOR A CHANGE
EVERY SO OFTEN SO WIDOWS AND
PREPARE FOR THAT.
>> OK, THANK YOU, LARRY.
THE NEXT UPDATE THAT WE HAVE IS
A CITY COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER.
I GOT IT.
I WANT TO NOT BE HERE BUT DID
PROVIDE A REPORT THAT WAS SENT
OUT WITH THE MEETING AGENDA.
IT WAS ATTACHED.
SO IF YOU HAVEN'T HAD A CHANCE
TO LOOK AT IT, IT WAS SAID THAT
WITH THE AGENDA BUT IT JUST
GOES OVER JUST SOME UPDATES
FROM WHAT SHE'S BEEN WORKING ON
AS WELL AS LETTING THE
COMMISSION KNOW TODAY WE HAVE
THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS
HERE, JORDAN ROBERTS WHO'S
COMING HERE TO TALK ABOUT YOUR
CONCERNS WITH SNOW AND SNOW
REMOVAL.
SO THAT'LL BE COMING UP IN THE
AGENDA AND THAT IS ALL SHE HAD
.
>> SO NEXT WE MOVE ON TO
SPECIAL PRESENTATION AND LARRY
INTRODUCE TO OUR PERSON WELL
BEFORE I SAY THAT I WAS HAPPY
THAT THIS YEAR THE COMMISSION
DID THE THE WE DID PARTICIPATE
IN THE HIRING INTERVIEWS AND
THAT WAS A GOOD EXPERIENCE.
I'M GLAD OUR COMMISSION MEMBER
GOT TO SIT IN ON IT AND
CHIASMUS GELO GENERAL, HOW DO
YOU PRONOUNCE YOUR LAST NAME
AGAIN IN STRONG BRONG OK IT IS
IT IS THE THE FLOOR GOES TO YOU
AND GOOD.
WELCOME TO BEING OUR NEW A.D.A
COORDINATOR.
>> IT'S CLEAR THAT YOU'RE NOT
PLEASE.
>> YEAH THIS IS JOANNA
SPEAKING.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR A WARM
WELCOME.
SORRY I HAD A SLIGHT ISSUE WITH
MY OWN NEW FOR A SECOND AND
JUST TO GIVE SOME CONTEXT TO
HOW I'M APPEARING ON THE SCREEN
RIGHT NOW I'M HALF CHINESE,
HALF WHITE WOMAN IN MY MID 20S
WITH LONG DARK BROWN HAIR AND
AT THIS MOMENT ALL MY ACCESS
NEEDS ARE MET.
SO THAT'S WONDERFUL AND I AM
JUST SO EXCITED TO BE HERE WITH
YOU ALL SO HONORED TO BE IN THE
POSITION AND SO GRATEFUL FOR
AND LAUREN, THE MENTORSHIP I'VE
RECEIVED FROM MY OFFICE THUS
FAR.
JUST TO GIVE YOU SOME CONTEXT
ABOUT MYSELF, I HAVE A BACHELOR
OF ARTS IN ENVIRONMENTAL
STUDIES WITH A MINOR IN
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH FROM THE
UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON IN
SEATTLE AND SO DURING MY TIME
IN UNDERGRAD I WAS VERY FOCUSED
ON THE INTERSECTIONS OF CLIMATE
CHANGE AND MENTAL HEALTH AS
WELL AS ON THE IMPACTS
OF CHILDREN'S HEALTH,
ESPECIALLY LOOKING AT HOW REUSE
AND CLEANING PRODUCTS IN
SCHOOLS AND THAT IMPACTS ON
RESPIRATORY EXPERIENCES
OF CHILDREN.
AFTER UNDERGRAD I WENT ON TO
WORK AT PUBLIC HEALTH SEATTLE
KING COUNTY WHERE I WAS A PART
OF AN AWARD WINNING PROGRAM
THAT THEY COVID
RECOVERY FOCUSING ON INDOOR AIR
QUALITY AND HOW TO HELP THE
COMMUNITY RESPONSE TO COVID.
SO THAT WAS ONE OF THE LOVELY
EXPERIENCES THAT I GOT TO BE A
PART OF THAT WAS FOCUSED ON A
REALLY EQUITY DRIVEN ASSISTANCE
MODEL AND IT WAS GREAT TO DO
THAT.
A LOT OF MY EXPERIENCE WITHIN
THE DISABILITY REALM COMES FROM
MY EXPERIENCE IN HIGHER
EDUCATION AND HELPING STUDENTS
THROUGH NAVIGATION AROUND
DISABILITY RESOURCES AND
EMPLOYMENT ACCOMMODATIONS.
I WORKED REALLY HARD TO FOCUS
ON CREATING STUDENT EDUCATION
AND COMMUNITY OPPORTUNITIES ARE
WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE LEAVING
HIGHER EDUCATION AND NAVIGATING
THE EXPERIENCE OF HAVING A
DISABILITY OUTSIDE OF EDUCATION
ESPECIALLY WITH MY OWN
EXPERIENCES.
AND SO I'M HONORED TO BE HERE
AND HONORED TO LEARN FROM YOU
ALL AND I'M REALLY EXCITED
ABOUT THE NEW RULES.
SO THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
WELCOMING ME.
>> YEAH, WE GET IT QUITE OUR
OPEN PEOPLE PROBABLY WANT TO
ASK YOU A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS
AND WE WANT TO GO LIKE THREE OR
FOUR QUESTIONS BEFORE WE GO TO
THE NEXT PRESENTER AND SINCE
I'M HERE I GOT I'LL GO AHEAD.
>> YEAH, I WAS GOING TO SAY
THIS IS JENNA SPEAKING.
THAT SOUNDS GREAT.
MY RESPONSES MAY BE LIMITED
DEPENDING ON THE QUESTIONS THAT
YOU ASK ME BECAUSE I'M SO NEW
TO THE ROLE THAT I'M SUPER
EXCITED TO ANSWER WHATEVER I
CAN FOR YOU KNOW, SO MY
QUESTION IS POLITELY MY
QUESTION IS ARE YOU WILLING TO
MEET WITH US MULTIPLE BI
MONTHLY FOR A MONTHLY BASIS AND
LET US KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON IN
HERE WITH YOUR OFFICE AND WHAT
YOU GUYS ARE DOING AND COME UP
YOU CAN TALK WITH US AND WE'LL
TALK WITH YOU AT THE MEETING.
ARE YOU WILLING TO DO THAT SORT
OF THING?
>> I'M DEFINITELY WILLING TO
MEET WITH FOLKS AT THIS MOMENT.
I'M NOT SURE WHAT CAPACITY THAT
WILL LOOK LIKE THAT WILL LIKELY
DETERMINE BE DETERMINED ON
SOMETHING THAT LG AND I
COORDINATE ON LG.
I DON'T KNOW IF YOU HAVE
ANYTHING TO ADD TO THAT AS I'M
STILL FILLING OUT MY SCHEDULE
AND COMPLETING A BUNCH OF MY
TRAININGS.
IT MAY BE A MORE FLUX AT THE
BEGINNING AND I KNOW THAT I
HAVE PREDETERMINED COMMITMENT
WEDNESDAY NIGHTS PRIOR TO
TAKING ON THIS ROLE.
SO I AM DEFINITELY GOING TO BE
INTENTIONAL ABOUT MEETING WITH
THE COMMITTEE AND I AM WILLING
TO DISCUSS WHAT THAT CAPACITY
LOOKS LIKE.
WELL OK.
AND THE OTHER THING IS JUST
COMMENT DID JUST A GOOD
DESCRIPTION OF YOURSELF.
I'M ACTUALLY VISUALLY IMPAIRED
AND OBVIOUSLY I'M NOT DOING
THAT HERE BECAUSE I USE AN OLD
PHONE.
SO THAT WAS THAT WAS THAT WAS
NICE A DESCRIPTION OF YOURSELF.
>> THANK YOU.
THAT IS HELPFUL
.
>> ANY OTHER QUESTIONS FROM THE
COMMISSION?
>> OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH JENNA.
WE'RE HAPPY TO HAVE YOU AND WE
LOOK FORWARD TO COLLABORATING
WITH YOU.
THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT, LARRY, WE MOVE ON TO
THIS OR TO THE BANDS THE LAB,
RIGHT?
NOPE.
THE NEXT ONE IS THE PUBLIC
SERVICE ADMINISTRATION
PRESENTATION WITH ROBERT
JORDAN.
>> ARE YOU HERE WITH JORDAN
ROBERTS?
THERE YOU GO.
HELLO EVERYBODY.
I WAS INTRODUCED MY NAME'S
JORDAN ROBERTS.
I AM CALLING IN FROM DEARBORN
RIGHT NOW WHERE I LIVE.
BUT I DO WORK DOWNTOWN ANN
ARBOR PRETTY REGULARLY.
JUST HAPPENED TO BE HOME TODAY
IF YOU HEAR ANY ANYTHING IN THE
BACKGROUND I DO HAVE MY CAT
DAVE IS VERY INTERESTED IN
WHATEVER I'M DOING AT THE
MOMENT.
SO IF YOU HEAR SOME SOME
YELLING IN THE BACKGROUND
THAT'S THAT'S HIM AND I ASSURE
YOU HE'S FINE.
HE'S JUST DRAMATIC.
I HAVE BEEN WITH THE CITY IN
OUR FOR ALMOST EIGHT MONTHS I
THE PUBLIC SERVICES
ADMINISTRATOR SO I OVERSEE ALL
OF THE SORT OF CITY SERVICE
OPERATIONS.
THESE ARE PUBLIC WORKS WHICH
I'M GOING TO TALK ABOUT SNOW
REMOVAL A LITTLE BIT TODAY.
BUT WE ALSO I ALSO WORK WITH
THE WATER TREATMENT PLANT, THE
WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT, OUR
SYSTEMS PLANNING UNIT WHICH IS
AN ASSET MANAGEMENT FOR ALL
OF OUR UNDERGROUND UTILITIES
AND STORMWATER.
I'M ALSO INVOLVED WITH SOLID
WASTE COLLECTION, OUR
ENGINEERING UNIT BECAUSE ALL
OF OUR CAPITAL PROJECTS, ALL
THE ROAD RESURFACING AND THE
SIDEWALK GAP PROGRAM AND THEN
ALSO TRANSPORTATION WHICH HAS
BEEN PART OF THE CITY AND PART
OF PUBLIC SERVICES FOR A LONG
TIME.
BUT IT IS NOW OFFICIALLY IT'S
OWN UNIT AND THE TRANSPORTATION
IS, YOU KNOW, PREDOMINANTLY
WORKING ON MULTIMODAL
TRANSPORTATION FORMATS THAT'S
DOING CROSSWALKS, BIKE LANES,
REGULAR ROADS AND AND YOU KNOW,
DETERMINING HOW THEY'RE BEST
LAID OUT.
SO THERE IS A LOT TO TOO WHAT
I'M DOING EVERY DAY IT'S IT'S
QUITE DIFFERENT EACH AND EVERY
DAY AND I'M I'M LOVING IT SO MY
BACKGROUND I HAVE I HAVE A LONG
YEAR A NUMBER OF YEARS IN
PUBLIC SECTOR.
I WORKED FOR THE CITY
OF DEARBORN FOR A LONG TIME
MANAGING PUBLIC WORKS PROCESS,
IMPROVING AND THEN ALSO SOLID
WASTE AND CODE ENFORCEMENT.
I SPENT MY LONGEST TIME DOING
CODE ENFORCEMENT AND SOLID
WASTE BUT BEFORE THAT I WAS A
TEACHER AND I I WAS A TEACHER
FOR A COUPLE OF YEARS HERE IN
MICHIGAN BUT ALSO FOR A NUMBER
OF YEARS IN MARYLAND AND
REFERENCING SOMETHING JENNA
SAID EARLIER ABOUT WORKING WITH
STUDENTS.
I DID WORK WITH SPECIAL
STUDENTS A LOT ALTHOUGH I WAS
NOT IN I WAS NOT CERTIFIED
SPECIFICALLY FOR THAT.
SO I WAS THE GENERAL TEACHER
THAT THAT WORKED ALONGSIDE
MAKING ACCOMMODATIONS AND IT
WAS A REALLY, REALLY AWESOME
PART OF MY JOB.
BUT WITH THAT I WAS ASKED TO
BRING UP SOME THINGS ABOUT SNOW
MAINTENANCE AND SOME OF THE
CHANGES WE'VE MADE OVER THE
LAST YEAR AND WHAT TO LOOK
FORWARD TO THIS YEAR AND I I'M
GOING TO GO AHEAD AND GET RIGHT
INTO THAT.
I JUST HISTORICALLY SIDEWALK
MAINTENANCE WAS PERFORMED BY
OUR PARK STAFF AND THEN ALSO WE
HAVE A AN ORDINANCE THAT
REQUIRES PROPERTY OWNERS TO
MAINTAIN THEIR SIDEWALKS FREE
OF SNOW.
SO IF IT WOULD SNOW IT'S THE
ADJACENT PROPERTY OWNER, THEIR
RESPONSIBILITY TO CLEAR THE
SNOW AND GENERALLY SPEAKING THE
CITY WOULD BE RESPONSIBLE FOR
WINTER MAINTENANCE OF SIDEWALKS
INSPECTIONS THAT WOULDN'T FALL
UNDER THAT ORDINANCE AND THESE
WOULD BE AREAS LIKE ALONG MAJOR
ROADWAY RIGHTS THE WAY OR AREAS
WHERE IT'S NOT PRACTICAL
BECAUSE THAT RUNS BEHIND THEIR
HOUSE AND SO SOMEBODY WOULD
HAVE TO GO OUT AROUND THE BLOCK
AND AND COME BACK OR JUST
PUBLIC PARCELS, MAJOR
INTERSECTIONS AND A LOT
OF DOWNTOWN.
LAST YEAR WE STARTED A CONTRACT
TO HAVE SOME SUPPLEMENTAL HELP
FOR I'M SORRY DID YOU SAY
SOMETHING COMMISSIONER FUELER?
>> NO, I'M SORRY.
I THOUGHT I THOUGHT I HEARD
SOMETHING ABOUT THE DOG HE'S
STARTED TO THE HE HEARS TO MY
CAT IN THE BACKGROUND THE THE
SORRY THE SIDEWALKS ARE
MAINTAINED BY A CONTRACT
COMPANY.
I BELIEVE WE MAY HAVE TO AND WE
HAVE SIDEWALKS ALL OVER THE
CITY THAT WE ARE MAINTAINING.
WE DO NOT START MAINTAINING
SIDEWALKS UNTIL AFTER THE SNOW
EVENT HAS ENDED.
WHAT THAT MEANS IS IF IT'S IF
IT'S SNOWING STILL WE'RE
WORKING ON GETTING ROADS OPEN
OR KEEPING ROADS SAFE AND THEN
ONCE THE SNOW HAS STOPPED OR
BASICALLY STOPPED, WE GET OUT
AND AND HAVE OUR CONTRACTORS
OUT TO REMOVE SNOW FROM THE
SIDEWALKS.
WE DO WORK ALL OVER THE CITY
AND I AM GOING TO SHARE A MAP
TO SHOW YOU THE BREADTH
OF LOCATIONS THAT WE REALLY
SERVICE.
KENNEDY I NOT TOO FAMILIAR WITH
ZOOM SO I THINK I'M SHARING IT
CORRECTLY NOW FOR THOSE OF YOU
THAT ARE ABLE FOR THOSE OF YOU
THAT ARE ABLE TO VIEW IT, THIS
IS A MAP THAT IS ZOOMED OUT.
IT'S A VERY SIMPLISTIC MAP.
IT IS A SHOWING ANN ARBOR AND
IN PURPLE OR FUCHSIA IT'S
HIGHLIGHTING THE SECTIONS
OF SIDEWALK THAT ARE MAINTAINED
BY THE CITY.
I'M GOING TO ZOOM IN TO
DIFFERENT AREAS MAINLY JUST
KIND OF THE DOWNTOWN RIGHT NOW.
AND AS YOU ZOOM IN AND SHOW
THOSE MORE SPECIFIC AREAS THAT
ARE MAINTAINED, WE HAVE A LOT
OF STOPS AND STARTS SO WE
MAINTAIN AREAS THAT MAY BE A
LONG STRETCH IN FRONT OF PUBLIC
PROPERTY OR THAT ARE ALONG
HEAVILY TRAVELED AREA AND THEN
PRIVATE PROPERTY STARTS RIGHT
NEXT TO IT.
SO WE DO THE SECTION IN BETWEEN
AND IT'S ALL MAPPED OUT.
WE DO NOT CURRENTLY HAVE A
PUBLIC FACING MAP THAT SHOWS
THIS INFORMATION.
THIS IS JUST AN INTERNAL MAP
FOR US RIGHT NOW BUT IT IS
BEING INTEGRATED INTO THE
EXTERNAL PUBLIC MAP.
I THINK WE'RE SUPPOSED TO HAVE
THAT DONE BY THIS YEAR OR FOR
THIS YEAR.
IT SHOWS DIFFERENT PARKS THAT
WE MAINTAIN AT CERTAIN SPOTS.
SO IF IF THERE IS IN AN AREA
THAT SOME OF YOU ARE AWARE
OF THAT WAS NOT MAINTAINED LAST
YEAR, IT NEEDS TO BE YOU CAN
ALWAYS REACH OUT TO KENNEDY.
YOU CAN EMAIL ME OR TO FIX IT
IS A GREAT WAY TO DO IT.
WE DID DISCOVER SOME ANOMALIES
LAST YEAR WHERE WE WERE NOT WE
DID NOT HAVE THE WE DIDN'T KNOW
WE NEEDED TO MAINTAIN IT BUT
BECAUSE SOME PEOPLE REACHED OUT
AND LET US KNOW THAT THERE WAS
CERTAIN PUBLIC AREAS THAT
WEREN'T BEING MAINTAINED, WE
GOT THAT FOLDED INTO THE
CONTRACTS AND WE'RE HOPING THAT
WE HAVE EVERYWHERE HANDLED THIS
YEAR.
IT IT DOES HAPPEN SOMETIMES
THAT WHEN WE CLEAR THE SNOW
WELL IT HAPPENS TO TO EVERYBODY
BUT SPECIFICALLY FOR US FOR THE
CITY SOMETIMES WE CLEAR THE
SNOW FROM SIDEWALKS AND THE
PLOW TRUCKS COME BY AND AND END
UP PUSHING IT ALL BACK UP ON
THE ON TO THE SIDEWALK AND WE
DO SEND OUR CONTRACTORS BACK
AROUND TO CLEAR THEM.
OUR GOAL IS TO HAVE ALL OF THE
SIDEWALKS AND EVERYTHING ROADS
CLEAR TWENTY FOUR HOURS AFTER
THE END THE SNOW FALL WITH
SIDEWALKS.
WE ARE TRYING WE ARE SHOOTING
FOR EIGHT HOURS.
THAT'S THAT'S OUR GOAL.
BUT YOU KNOW, SOMETIMES WHEN IT
GETS PLOWED WE NEED TO CALL
THEM BACK OUT TO FIX AREAS AND
OUR DRIVERS ARE TRAINED TO KEEP
AN EYE ON THOSE THINGS AS
THEY'RE DOING THEIR AREA.
IF THEY SEE AN AREA THEY MAY
HAVE PLOWED OVER OR THAT IS
PLOWED OVER, THEY CALL IT IN TO
GET THAT FIXED.
WE ALSO HAVE CITY
RESPONSIBILITY DOWNTOWN AND I'M
GOING TO TURN THAT OFF UP
ANOTHER I'M GOING TO PULL UP
ANOTHER LESS INTERACTIVE MAP
THIS MAP WELL SHOW YOU DOWNTOWN
ZOOMED IN BUT IT IS VERY IT'S
ONLY IDENTIFYING THE SPOTS
OF THE RAMPS THAT ARE BEING
MAINTAINED.
THE SIDEWALKS THEMSELVES ARE
ARE MAINTAINED SPECIFICALLY
WANTED TO SHOW THE DIFFERENT
MAPS.
THE MAP ON THE SCREEN IS AS IS
DOWNTOWN HAS RED OUTLINES ALL
AROUND IT AND HAS SOME DOTS AT
DIFFERENT INTERSECTIONS THAT
THE CITY MAINTAINS THERE ARE
GREEN DOTS THAT REPRESENT
INTERSECTIONS.
WE'RE ONLY PARTIAL RAMP
SERVICE.
SO THIS IS NOT NECESSARILY ALL
OF THE ALL OF THE CORNERS HAVE
A RAMP OR EXACTLY SPECIFICALLY
WHAT THEY MEANT BY THAT.
I'M NOT I'M NOT CERTAIN I'M
MAKING AN INFERENCE BUT THEN
THERE'S ALSO PURPLE DOTS THAT
ARE SHOWING ALL THE DIFFERENT
ALL THE DIFFERENT LOCATIONS
THAT EVERY CORNER IS IS CLEARED
AND OUR DRIVERS AND OUR
CONTRACTORS DO THE BEST WE CAN
WITH TRYING TO MAINTAIN THAT
FIRST FEW FEET OFF THE RAMP
INTO THE STREET WHERE YOU
USUALLY END UP HAVE HAVING A
SNOW SHOVEL LAND WHERE A LOT
OF PEOPLE THINK THEY CAN STOP
SHOVELING BECAUSE THEY'VE HIT
THE STREET AND TRUCKS EITHER
DON'T GET CLOSE ENOUGH TO THE
CORNER OR THEY'RE WINDROW
PUSHES IT BACK.
WE ARE WE ARE DRIVERS ARE AWARE
OF THAT.
THEY ARE TRAINED TO TO NOT DO
THAT.
SO WE'RE WE'RE WORKING ON THAT.
IF THERE'S EVER AN INSTANCE
WHERE YOU'RE SEEING CORNERS OR
EXPERIENCING CORNERS THAT
AREN'T AREN'T CLEARED, PLEASE
PUT THE NEED TO FIX THAT TICKET
OR YOU CAN CALL CUSTOMER
SERVICE.
WE ARE TAKING ALL THOSE
COMPLAINTS VERY SERIOUSLY AND
WE TRY TO GET THAT WORKED OUT
THIS COMING YEAR COMING UP, IT
HAS NOT STARTED YET BUT THE DDA
IS HOPING TO EXPAND THEIR
BOUNDARIES A LITTLE BIT AND AND
ADJUST TO FINANCING THE TAX
INCREMENT FINANCING AND WITH
THAT THEY'RE HOPING TO FORM
LIKE A DOWNTOWN SERVICE TEAM
AND THAT SERVICE TEAM IS GOING
TO BE CREW THAT IS DOWNTOWN
THAT WILL BE THERE TO HANDLE
SNOW REMOVAL AS QUICKLY AS
POSSIBLE AND MAINTAIN THINGS IN
A CLEAR ACCESSIBLE CONDITION
OTHERWISE FOR THE FOR MAIN
ROADWAYS WE DO NOT WE WE GO OUT
WHEN SNOW IS THREE INCHES OR
LESS.
WE RUN OUT AND PUT DOWN A
LITTLE BIT OF SALT AND PUT DOWN
SOME SAND.
WE DO NOT BRING ROADS TO A BARE
PAVEMENT CONDITION THAT IS AND
A IT'S AN UNNECESSARY USE
OF SALT.
IT'S VERY IT'S WASTEFUL.
IT CAUSES JUST A LOT OF SALT TO
BE LEFT UNUSED AND IN THE
STREETS AND THEN WASHES DOWN
THE SEWERS INTO THE WATERSHED
THROUGH THE STORM SYSTEM.
SO WHAT WE AIM FOR IS SAFE
STREETS AND SPEED APPROPRIATE
CONDITIONS.
SO WE WE WHAT WE DO PUT DOWN
SALT BUT WE DO NOT TAKE IT DOWN
TO BARE PAVEMENT EVERY TIME
JUST BECAUSE IT'S JUST WASTEFUL
NOT NOT POSSIBLE WHEN IT'S
LARGER SNOW EVENTS IT DOES TAKE
US MORE TRIPS.
BUT WE ALL WE ARE ALWAYS
SHOOTING FOR SAFE CLEAR ROADS
WITHIN TWENTY FOUR HOURS OF THE
END OF A SNOWFALL
WE'RE AT THE
FIVE MINUTE MARK.
OK, SO WITH THAT I I AM BUT
DONE ACTUALLY I WAS ABOUT TO
SAY THAT SO IF ANYONE HAS ANY
QUESTIONS I'M HAPPY TO DO MY
BEST TO ANSWER.
I MAY NOT HAVE ALL THE DETAILS
BUT I CAN CERTAINLY GET AN
ANSWER TO YOU AFTERWARDS.
THANK YOU JURDEN FIRST WE HAVE
COMMISSIONER MOSIG.
YES GOOD AFTERNOON.
THANKS FOR THIS INFORMATIVE
INFORMATION.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
I CANDIDLY I'M A WHEELCHAIR
USER AND I WHAT CONCERNS ME
ABOUT NOT GOING TO ZERO AND I
HEAR ALL OF THE RATIONALE THAT
YOU PROVIDED BUT MY CONCERN IS
IS WHEN WE ARE AT A CURB CUT
AND YOU'RE TRYING TO CROSS THE
STREET IF THE SNOW IS TOO TALL
IT'S VERY DIFFICULT TO GET A
WHEELCHAIR THROUGH THAT.
SO CANDIDLY MY WHEELCHAIR IS A
ELECTRA IS AN ELECTRIC MOTOR
WHEELCHAIR AND SO IT HAS TO
DRIVE WHEELS BUT IT HAS
FORECASTER'S SO WHILE THE DRIVE
WHEELS ARE GREAT, THE CASTERS
CAN BECOME CONFUSED.
SO EVEN IN THE MIDDLE OF SUMMER
IF I HIT A ROCK IT CAN ADJUST
THE TRAJECTORY OF MY WHEELCHAIR
.
>> SO IMAGINE WHAT IT'S LIKE
HAVING FOUR WHEEL FORECASTERS
GOING THROUGH SNOW TRYING TO
MAKE YOUR WHEELCHAIR GOING IN
DIFFERENT DIRECTIONS.
>> IS THERE A THOUGHT ABOUT HOW
YOU CAN HELP CROSSWALK AREAS BE
A LITTLE BIT LOWER SO THAT THIS
PROBLEM DOESN'T HAPPEN?
ARE YOU REFERRING TO LOWER LIKE
HOW MUCH SNOW IS ON THEM, HOW
MUCH SNOW YOU PLOW?
>> YEAH, BECAUSE MY GOD IS THAT
IF IF I'M CROSSING AND LET'S
SAY THEY'VE DONE A GOOD JOB
TAKING CARE OF A CURB CUT BUT I
GET TO THE STREET AND I CAN'T
CROSS THAT I'M STRANDED.
RIGHT.
AND SO I'M JUST I'M WONDERING
HAVE YOU HAD ANY THOUGHTS ON
THIS ISSUE?
HAVE YOU DONE ANY RESEARCH ON
THIS ISSUE OR AS WE FIND
PROBLEMS THIS WINTER LET YOU
KNOW TO HELP YOU GUYS BECOME
BETTER AS THE WINTERS PROGRESS
SO YES, THAT SPECIFICALLY
PLEASE LET US KNOW DON'T FALL
FOR EVERYBODY.
PLEASE DON'T ASSUME SOMEBODY
ELSE HAS HAS LET US KNOW BUT
WHAT I WOULD LIKE TO CLARIFY
WHAT I WAS SAYING ABOUT THE
SALT AND NOT TAKING IT DOWN TO
BARE PAVEMENT THAT IS GENERAL
THROUGHOUT THE CITY WE DO MORE
HEAVILY SALT INTERSECTIONS AND
TRY TO KEEP THOSE CLEAR IF YOUR
EXPERIENCE HAS BEEN THEY'RE NOT
CLEAR ENOUGH I CAN CERTAINLY
LET OUR OUR PUBLIC WORKS TEAM
KNOW AND WE CAN LOOK FOR WAYS
TO TRY TO EITHER PUT DOWN EXTRA
SALT OR THEY'RE USUALLY USING A
SCRAPER BLADE ANYWAY.
BUT WE DO GET A NUMBER
OF COMPLAINTS FROM THE GENERAL
PUBLIC THAT THERE'S STILL SNOW
ON THE STREET AND I WAS SIMPLY
TRYING TO CLARIFY THAT WE WE
DON'T WE DON'T TAKE IT ALL THE
WAY DOWN BUT AT INTERSECTIONS
WE I HOPE WE ARE AND I EVEN IF
IT'S NOT NOT BARE PAVEMENT, I
WILL FORWARD YOUR CONCERN TO
OUR DPW UNIT MANAGER WHO'S VERY
RESPONSIVE AND WE'LL SEE IF IF
YOU'VE HAD AN ISSUE WE'LL TRY
TO IMPROVE IT THIS YEAR AND AND
IF YOU FIND ANYTHING, PLEASE
LET US KNOW.
I APPRECIATE THAT ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION ABOUT HOW YOU'RE A
LITTLE BIT MORE PROACTIVE AT
CURB CUTS AND THINGS LIKE THAT
WHEN YOU FIRST HAVE SPOKEN YOU
HAD JUST SAID JUST IN GENERAL
SO THAT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
IS SATISFYING TO ME BUT I WILL
CONTINUE.
>> I'M VERY VOCAL.
IT CAN BE VERY CHALLENGING WHEN
YOU'RE TRYING TO GET SOMEWHERE
AND THREE OUT OF FOUR CURB CUTS
AREN'T AVAILABLE AND THEN
YOU'RE JUST STUCK.
SO THANK YOU FOR BEING
THOUGHTFUL AND I LOOK FORWARD
TO SEEING OTHER GOOD WORKS THAT
YOU ALL DO THIS WINTER.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK I APPRECIATE THAT.
>> ANY ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS
FROM COMMISSIONERS?
>> THIS IS ONAKA CONRAD.
I WONDERED IF YOU COULD SPEAK A
LITTLE TO YOUR APPROACH TO
CLEARING BUS STOPS.
I'VE HAD SOME TROUBLE.
I'M LEGALLY BLIND.
SO THIS PAST WINTER REMEMBER
COMING UP ON EITHER GETTING OUT
OF A BUS INTO AN UNCLEARED
SPACE OR TRYING TO GET ONTO A
BUS.
IT HASN'T BEEN CLEARED AND THIS
HAS HAPPENED.
I LIVE ALONG MILLER AVENUE SO
I'M THINKING OF THOSE SPOTS
SPECIFICALLY.
>> BUT I'M JUST WONDERING IF
YOU COULD SPEAK TO THAT A
LITTLE.
SO ADMITTEDLY I AM NOT SURE HOW
BUS STOPS ARE APPROACHED BY OUR
STAFF IF IT'S OK WITH YOU I
WILL ASK THE THE UNIT MANAGER
HOW THAT'S HANDLED AND I CAN
SEND KENNEDY AN EMAIL AND SHE
CAN SHE CAN GET THAT TO YOU IF
THAT'S OK.
WITH YOU.
OK, I JUST I DON'T WANT TO
SPEAK INCORRECTLY AND I DON'T
KNOW THE EXTENT OF WHICH WE DO
IT BUT YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT BUS
STOPS ON MILLER AVENUE AND I
WILL ASK HIS NAME'S PAUL.
I'LL ASK HIM WHAT WHAT ROLE
PUBLIC WORKS PLAYS AND CLEARING
THOSE AND IT WAS THERE I'M
SORRY YOU DID MENTION THE
SPECIFIC ISSUE BUT CAN YOU
REMIND ME SO JUST LIKE FINDING
UNCLEARED BUS STOPS SO I MEAN
IT'S AN ISSUE IF YOU'RE EITHER
GETTING ON OR GETTING OFF THE
BUS THERE'S NO CLEAR PATH TO TO
GET TO THE BUS.
>> YOU'RE UNDERSTAND THAT MAY
ALSO BE SOMETHING THAT I WOULD
SAY THAT MAY ALSO BE SOMETHING
THAT THE TO THE RIDE IS IS
INVOLVED WITH.
BUT I WILL GET AN ANSWER FOR
YOU REGARDLESS OF WHAT THAT
OUTCOME OR REGARDLESS OK OK.
THANK YOU.
READY.
ANY ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS FIRST
YOUR KILLER DID YOU HAVE A
QUESTION?
>> WELL I HAD A COMMENT JUST TO
BACK UP THE IT IS IT IS VERY
DIFFICULT WHEN THAT HAPPENS
SOMETIMES YOU HAVE I'VE BEEN
KNOWN TO GO TO THE BUS STOP FOR
I HAD TO CLIMB UP A PILE
OF SNOW THAT HASN'T BEEN
REMOVED AND SLIDE DOWN
BASICALLY INTO THE BUS.
SO YEAH, IT HAPPENS MORE THAN
JUST ON MILLER ROAD.
IT'S ALL OVER AND FROM MY
UNDERSTANDING NOBODY KNOWS
EXACTLY HOW THE BUS STOPS.
I THINK THEY TAKE CARE OF SOME
NEIGHBORHOODS AND THEY TAKE
SOME BUSINESSES HAVE SOMETHING
TO DO.
YEAH.
THAT WE WOULD IF YOU COULD
CLARIFY THAT FOR US, I
CERTAINLY WILL.
AND I'M I'M I DO NOT HAVE ANY
VISUAL IMPAIRMENTS OR MOBILITY
IMPAIRMENTS AND I HAVE HAD THE
SAME EXPERIENCE OF GOING UP
WITH SNOW HILL AND FALLING
DOWN.
SO IT'S IT'S IT'S A UNIVERSAL
PROBLEM AT BUS STOPS I BELIEVE
NO MATTER WHAT CITY YOU'RE IN I
HAVE NO ISSUE THAT I KNOW IS I
HAVE THAT PROBLEM ON OCCASION I
JUST LEARNED HOW TO SLIDE DOWN
AND THEN YEAH I GOTCHA BUT YEAH
WE'D LIKE WE'D LIKE THAT
BECAUSE THEY SO HAPPY TO FOLLOW
UP ON THAT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH JORDAN.
AND IF ANY ADDITIONAL
COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS AFTER THIS
YOU ALL CAN FEEL FREE TO E-MAIL
THEM TO MYSELF AND I WOULD BE
HAPPY TO SEND THEM OVER TO
JORDAN AND THEN ONCE HE FOLLOWS
MONICA I WILL FORWARD YOU THE
RESPONSE AND GET THAT TO YOU AS
WELL.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, JORDAN.
THANK YOU.
>> GLAD I COULD BE HERE.
OF COURSE.
ALL RIGHT, LARRY.
NOW THE NEXT ONE'S YOURS.
YES, STEVE, WE HAVE THE PANDA
NOW THE LAB WE GOT THE AND WANT
ME TO TALK?
>> YEAH.
YES, NO MAYCOCK I'M GINO PANTS.
>> I'M THE P.I. OF THE LAB JUST
MOZER AS A PHD STUDENT IN MY
LAB THAT HELPED SET THIS UP.
SO THE FORMAT SEEMS TO BE A
LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT THAN I
ANTICIPATED BUT I BELIEVE THAT
I HAVE SLIDES.
SO WOULD YOU LIKE ME TO SHARE
MY SCREEN FOR THE SLIDES SO YOU
CAN SHARE YOUR SCREEN IN THERE
?
I WILL START THE TIMER.
I CAN GET IT TOGETHER ALTHOUGH
LET'S SEE IF IT'LL GO INTO
PRESENTATION VIEW.
CAN YOU SEE THE PRESENTATION
VIEW?
>> YES.
>> OK, SO I'M I'M HERE TO JUST
GIVE A QUICK CHAT ABOUT ONE
OF MY ONGOING STUDIES FOR THOSE
INDIVIDUALS WITH SPINAL CORD
INJURIES.
BUT I WILL PREFACE WE ARE
TRYING TO MOVE A VERY SIMILAR
STUDY FORWARD FOR OLDER
INDIVIDUALS WITH MOBILITY
IMPAIRMENTS, MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS
AND DEPENDING ON HOW GRANT
FUNDING GOES, THOSE WITH
PARKINSON'S DISEASE WELL IT IS
MORE OF A TRADITIONAL ACADEMIC
PRESENTATION BUT I WILL
HOPEFULLY BE ABLE TO VERBALIZE
THINGS A LITTLE BIT DIFFERENT
AND NOT IN SUCH A RIGOROUS
ACADEMIC STUDY.
>> SO I RIGHT NOW WE'RE WORKING
ON SPINAL CORD INJURY AND
SPINAL CORD INJURY AND WE WORK
WITH SOMETHING CALLED AUTONOMIC
DYSREFLEXIA AND ORTHOSTATIC
HYPERTENSION.
SO THESE ARE BLOOD PRESSURE
CONTROL PROBLEMS FOR THOSE WITH
A SPINAL CORD INJURY.
THE AUTONOMIC DYSREFLEXIA ARE
SPIKES IN BLOOD PRESSURE OR
BLOOD PRESSURE INCREASES BY
MORE THAN 20 MILLION YEARS
OF MERCURY ORTHOSTATIC
HYPOTENSION.
OUR DROPS IN BLOOD PRESSURE BY
MORE THAN 20 MILLIMETERS
OF MERCURY AND THESE
SHONTO
REALLY HAVE ISSUES WITH QUALITY
OF LIFE DISABILITY WHETHER YOU
USE INSURANCE STANDPOINTS OR
THE WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION
DEFINITION OF DISABILITY.
SO THE GENERAL THOUGHT AS IS
WHAT MOST PEOPLE FOCUS ON THE
MOST RESEARCH STUDIES THEY LOOK
AT CHANGES OF MOTOR FUNCTION
AFTER A SPINAL CORD INJURY AND
THIS IS FOR ANY NEUROLOGICAL
CONDITION.
THE FIFTH MOBILITY BECOMES A
MAJOR IMPAIRMENT THEN THE
THOUGHT IS AND WALKING IS
REDUCED AND IF WE CAN IMPROVE
SOMEBODY'S ABILITY TO WALK THEN
THEN QUALITY OF LIFE IS WAY
BETTER.
THAT'S NOT NECESSARILY TRUE IN
THOSE OF SPINAL CORD INJURY BUT
THERE'S OTHER THINGS THAT WE
STUDY THAT COME WITH THIS
IMPAIRED MOTOR ACTIVATION DUE
TO THE SPINAL CORD INJURY SO
THE BRAIN CAN'T GET THE SIGNALS
,THE MUSCLES TO MAKE ENOUGH
FORCE TO STAND AND WALK.
THIS LEADS TO CHANGES IN
PHYSICAL FUNCTION WHETHER IT'S
MOBILITY GOING TO THE BUS STOP,
WHETHER IT'S FILLED WITH SNOW
OR NOT TRANSVERSE YOUR HOUSE
STAIRS ANY OF THAT NATURE LEADS
TO SOMETHING CALLED
DECONDITIONING.
AND WHAT DECONDITIONING DOES IS
THIS IS YOUR TRADITIONAL
SOMEBODY IS QUOTE UNQUOTE OUT
OF SHAPE.
IT CHANGES SOMETHING INSIDE
OF YOUR CELLS CALLED
MITOCHONDRIA AND THESE IMPACT
HIGHER BLOOD VESSELS FUNCTION.
SO THIS IS TWOFOLD.
IT IMPACTS BLOOD PRESSURE WHICH
PEOPLE STILL CALL THE SILENT
KILLER AND IT IMPACTS MOTOR
FUNCTION NOW WITH THOSE WITH
MOBILITY IMPAIRMENTS
SPECIFICALLY FOR THIS TALK
OF SPINAL CORD INJURY IS AS
YOUR MOBILITY WORSENS YOUR
MITOCHONDRIA AND YOUR BLOOD
VESSELS GET WORSE AND THEN THAT
MAKES IT HARDER TO MOVE.
SO THEN THESE INDIVIDUALS
TYPICALLY DON'T MOVE AS MUCH SO
THEN IT MAKES THE MITOCHONDRIA
EVEN WORSE.
THAT REALLY CREATES THIS
NEGATIVE FEEDBACK CYCLE FOR
DISABILITY AND MOBILITY
IMPAIRMENTS THAT IMPACT QUALITY
OF LIFE AND LEAD TO MORE
DISABILITY.
THERE ARE QUITE A FEW OF US IN
THE SPINAL CORD INJURY REALM
THAT FOCUSED SPECIFICALLY ON
AUTONOMIC DYSREFLEXIA OR
AUTONOMIC DYSFUNCTION WHICH IS
I AM ONE OF THEM AND I ALSO
STUDY IMPAIRED SLEEP.
SO WHEN YOU HAVE ALTERATIONS IN
SLEEP, WHETHER YOU DO OR DO NOT
HAVE A NEUROLOGICAL CONDITION,
IT DOES IMPAIR THE WAY THAT
YOUR BODY IMPACTS OR ACTIVATES
MUSCLES.
SO EVEN WHEN YOU TAKE ATHLETES
OR MILITARY IT'S IT'S PRETTY
WELL KNOWN IN MILITARY THEY
WILL SLEEP DEPRIVE OUR OUR
MILITARY MEMBERS.
THEY WILL WAKE THEM UP ALL THE
TIME.
THEY WILL JUST DISTURB THEIR
SLEEP AND IMMEDIATELY AFTER ONE
NIGHT THEY WON'T BE ABLE TO RUN
AS FAR THEY WON'T BE ABLE TO
RUN AS FAST.
THEY DON'T GENERATE AS MUCH
STRENGTH AND THESE ARE
INDIVIDUALS THAT ARE IN PRETTY
GOOD CONDITION IF YOU HAVE
IMPAIRED SLEEP.
WE ALSO KNOW THAT IT LEADS TO
DIFFERENT CHANGES IN YOUR
AUTONOMIC NERVOUS SYSTEM,
SPECIFICALLY HOW YOUR BODY
CONTROLS BLOOD PRESSURE.
SO THIS IS THE BIG THE BIG
PICTURE.
SO THIS IS WHAT A LOT OF US
RESEARCHERS TRY TO TARGET WITH
DIFFERENT TYPES
OF INTERVENTIONS.
ONE THAT I SPECIFICALLY USE IS
CALLED MILD INTERMITTENT
HYPOXIA AND I'LL TALK ABOUT IT
ON THE NEXT COUPLE OF SLIDES.
WHAT I REALLY LIKE ABOUT THIS
IS IT CIRCUMVENTS MOTOR
IMPAIRMENTS, RIGHT?
SO IT DOES NOT REQUIRE TO
SOMEBODY TO COME IN AND WALK ON
A TREADMILL OR LIFT ANY WEIGHTS
THERE ARE STUDIES THAT SHOW
THAT THIS AND IT'S JUST
BREATHING AND THEN I DO ALL THE
SO THE INDIVIDUAL COMES IN,
THEY JUST BREATHE THROUGH A
MASK.
I DO ALL THE REST OF THE WORK.
THEY JUST LAY THERE.
THERE ARE SOME IMPROVEMENTS IN
MOTOR ACTIVATION JUST FROM
BREATHING.
THERE ARE CHANGES IN BLOOD
PRESSURE, THERE ARE CHANGES IN
SLEEP AND THERE ARE CHANGES
MECHANISTICALLY FOR THE SCIENCE
SIDE TO THOSE MITOCHONDRIA.
SO THIS IS WHAT I STUDY WHAT I
PREVIOUSLY DID I WAS EVEN
THOUGH I'M I'M THIRTY SEVEN NOW
IT FEELS LIKE A LIFETIME AGO I
DID STRENGTH AND CONDITIONING
AND I TRAINED ATHLETES.
I THEN TOOK THAT INTO THE
SPINAL CORD INJURY WORLD AND I
WORKED ON LOCOMOTOR TRAINING
FOR THOSE WITH SPINAL CORD
INJURY AND I DID THAT AS A
DISSERTATION.
SO THAT'S WHAT I ORIGINALLY DID
AND I GRADUATED WITH MY PHD IN
TWENTY SEVENTEEN SO I'VE DONE
THE THE TARGET MOTOR FUNCTION
TRY TO GET INDIVIDUALS TO WALK
BUT THAT'S LIMITED FOR A SPINAL
CORD INJURY GROUP TO THOSE THAT
CAN WALK.
OK SO THE INTERVENTION THE TOP
RIGHT SCREEN IS ALL LIKE THE
SCIENTIFIC STUFF THAT WE WOULD
PUT IN A STUDY YOU SEE THIS
THING CALLED B ONE AND B TWO.
SO THEY COME IN WE PUT THIS
MASK ON AND I HAVE A PICTURE
OF THE MASK IN THE NEXT SLIDE
AND THEY JUST BREATHE AND
THEY'RE CONNECTED TO THIS
BREATHING CIRCUIT.
AND WHAT I DO IS I FILL A BAG
AND I FILL THIS BAG WITH EIGHT
PERCENT OXYGEN.
SO RIGHT NOW EVERYBODY'S
BREATHING ROUGHLY TWENTY ONE
PERCENT OXYGEN EVERY TIME I
LOWER THAT OXYGEN.
>> SO YOU TAKE THE SAME SIZED
BREATH BUT YOU GET LESS OXYGEN.
RIGHT.
SO IT'S NOT I'M NOT RESTRICTING
YOUR ACTUAL BREATHING AND WE DO
THAT TWO MINUTES AT A TIME AND
THEN WE TAKE TWO MINUTES OFF
TWO MINUTES AT A TIME TWO
MINUTES OFF AND WE DO THAT
TWELVE TIMES.
SO I LIKE TO RELATE THIS TO
EXERCISE.
SO IT'S LIKE TWO ABOUT TWO
MINUTES OF EXERCISE AND THEN
YOU TAKE A BREAK THEN TWO
MINUTES OF EXERCISE AND YOU
TAKE A BREAK.
OK, SO WHAT THE STUDY IS IT'S
CALLED A PARALLEL GROUP
DESIGNED SO WE BRING PEOPLE IN,
WE DO SOME SCREENING AND
CONSENTING TO MAKE SURE THAT
THEY QUALIFY FOR THE STUDY AND
THEN WE DO A SLEEP TEST SO WE
FIGURE OUT HOW WELL YOU SLEEP
IF YOU HAVE SLEEP APNEA, IF YOU
DO HAVE SLEEP APNEA, WE WILL
THEN SWITCH YOU OVER TO A C PAP
MACHINE IF YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT
TO SEE PAP MACHINE IS THIS IS
CALLED CONTINUOUS POSITIVE
AIRWAY PRESSURE.
IT'S THE THING THAT YOU SEE
PEOPLE PUT ON THEIR NOSE AND IT
PUSHES AIR IN WHILE THEY SLEEP.
SO WE DO THAT AND WE MAKE SOME
MEASURES OF HOW YOUR UPPER
AIRWAY FUNCTIONS DURING SLEEP.
SO WE DO ALL OF THAT AND THEN
YOU ARE RANDOMIZED TO EITHER
THE HYPOXIA GROUP OR WHAT WE
CALL SHAM WHICH YOU JUST
BREATHE NORMAL AIR BUT YOU ARE
GIVEN CPR IF YOU HAVE SLEEP
APNEA AND WE DO THIS THIS EVERY
DAY FOR EIGHT DAYS.
SO WHAT WE TRY TO DO IS LIKE
MONDAY THROUGH FRIDAY THE FIRST
WEEK AND THEN MONDAY THROUGH
WEDNESDAY THE SECOND WEEK.
BUT WE DO MAKE ALTERATIONS
BASED ON INDIVIDUALS SCHEDULES
AND THEN WE DO ALL OF THE SAME
TESTING AT THE END.
>> LIKE MOST INTERVENTION
STUDIES.
SO THIS WAS MADE FOR MORE
GEARED MORE TOWARDS PRESENTING
TO GROUPS OF INDIVIDUALS WITH
SPINAL CORD INJURIES.
BUT IF YOU KNOW INDIVIDUALS AND
YOU AND YOU HAVE AN THOSE
INDIVIDUALS IN YOUR NETWORK
WE'RE RECRUITING PEOPLE THAT
ARE 18 TO 60 YOU HAVE TO HAVE
WHAT'S CALLED A MOTOR
INCOMPLETE SSI.
SO YOU HAVE SOME MOTOR FUNCTION
BELOW THE INJURY THAT USUALLY
HAS A SCALE THAT'S CALLED THE
EYE SCALE OF C OR D.
THE INJURY HAS TO BE ABOVE THE
TWELVE THORACIC VERTEBRAE BUT
YOU HAVE TO HAVE SIGNS AND
SYMPTOMS OF ALTERED BLOOD
PRESSURE CONTROL AND ALMOST
EVERYBODY THAT WE SCAN OR
SCREEN THEY ALMOST NEVER HAVE
ANY IDEA ABOUT THEIR BLOOD
PRESSURE CONTROL.
SO WE DO ALL THE TESTS TO MAKE
THAT THAT DETERMINATION
INDIVIDUALS ARE PAID FOR THEIR
TIME SO THE SCREENING IS TWENTY
FIVE DOLLARS.
IT CAN BE WE'VE HAD SOME
SCREENINGS THAT ARE ONLY THIRTY
MINUTES BECAUSE WE FIND OUT
RIGHT AWAY THAT SOMEBODY
QUALIFY IF YOU DO THE FULL
STUDY IT COULD BE UP TO FOUR
HOURS EVEN THOUGH THAT'S RARE
AND THEY'RE PAID TWENTY FIVE
DOLLARS FOR SCREENINGS.
WE DO THREE SLEEP STUDIES ARE
PAID FIFTY DOLLARS FOR EACH
SLEEP STUDY WE DO THREE BLOOD
PRESSURE CONTROL TESTS.
YOU'RE PAID FIFTY DOLLARS FOR
EACH ONE THOSE AND YOU'RE PAID
FIFTY DOLLARS FOR EVERY DAY
THAT YOU COME IN FOR THERAPY SO
INDIVIDUALS MAKE ALMOST A
THOUSAND DOLLARS TO BE IN OUR
STUDY IT'S PRETTY INTENSIVE THE
FIRST TWO WEEKS AND THEN TWO
WEEKS ONCE YOU'RE DONE YOU COME
BACK JUST FOR FOR TESTING.
SO THIS IS WHAT ARE MOST OF OUR
EQUIPMENT LOOKS LIKE ON THE
BOTTOM RIGHT.
YOU CAN SEE THIS IS LEXIE AND
SHE'S MY PHD STUDENT.
SHE HAS THE MASK ON AND THIS
WHITE THING CONNECTED TO HER
FACE IS CALLED A NEW MOLE
TACHOMETER AND IT MEASURES HOW
MUCH AIR YOU BREATHE, HOW FAST
YOU BREATHE.
ALL THE OTHER LITTLE TUBES THAT
ARE CONNECTED ARE HER.
THEY MEASURE HOW MUCH OXYGEN IS
IN THE AIR, HOW MUCH CO2 IS IN
THE AIR.
SHE ALSO HAS AN EKG ON WHICH
THE STICKERS ON YOUR CHEST THAT
GIVE YOU THE THE HEART WAVEFORM
THAT YOU SEE ON EVERY HOSPITAL
SHOW.
YOU CAN'T SEE THAT ON THIS
PARTICULAR SCREEN IF YOU LOOK
AT HER HAND WHEN SHE'S GIVING
THE PEACE SIGN THAT THOSE TWO
PLASTIC CIRCLES AROUND HER
FINGER THOSE ARE ACTUALLY
MEASURING BEAT TO BEAT BLOOD
PRESSURE.
SO EVERY TIME YOUR HEART BEATS
IT'S MEASURING HOW MUCH
PRESSURE IS GENERATED IN THE
FINGERS.
SO THAT ALLOWS US TO GET BEAT
TO BEAT BLOOD PRESSURE RATHER
THAN JUST TAKING ONE ON YOUR
ARM LIKE WHEN YOU GO TO THE
DOCTOR'S OFFICE ON THE SCREEN
HERE IN THE MIDDLE PICTURE THE
THE TOP ONE IS CALLED MINUTE
VENTILATION.
NOT THAT THAT MATTERS BUT
THAT'S HOW MUCH AIR YOUR
BREATHING BUT THESE WAVEFORMS
BELIEVE BELOW THAT IS HOW FAST
THE AIR IS MOVING IN AND OUT
OF HER MOUTH.
THE NEXT TWO ARE HOW MUCH
OXYGEN AND CO2 SHE PRODUCES AND
WE MEASURE THIS EVERY SINGLE
BREATH FOR ABOUT AN HOUR AND 40
MINUTES WHEN PEOPLE COME IN FOR
EIGHT DAYS.
SO WE MAKE A TON
OF MEASUREMENTS ON THE LEFT YOU
CAN SEE THIS IS KIND OF OUR
SETUP.
THIS IS A NORMAL HOSPITAL
STRUCTURE THAT SETS UP THIS IS
WHERE WE DO SOME OF OUR
ORTHOSTATIC TESTING SO WE SIT
PEOPLE UP REALLY FAST AND SEE
HOW FAR DOWN THEIR BLOOD
PRESSURE DROPS.
THIS WHITE DEVICE HERE THAT HAS
THE BLUE RIM AROUND IT THAT IS
THE MACHINE THAT MEASURES BTP
BLOOD PRESSURE AND IN THE WAY
BACK YOU CAN SEE THOSE TWO
BAGS.
THOSE ARE THE BAGS THAT WE FILL
WITH ROOM AIR OR WE FILL WITH
THE EIGHT PERCENT AIR AND
THAT'S WHAT THE TUBE OR THAT
WHITE THING ON ON LEXY'S FACE
IN THIS PARTICULAR PICTURE IS
CONNECTED TO A TUBE AND THAT'S
CONNECTED TO THOSE BAGS.
>> SO WHEN PEOPLE I'M SORRY TO
INTERRUPT YOU JUST TO LET YOU
KNOW YOU'RE AT THE FIVE MINUTE
MARK.
>> OK, PERFECT.
SO THEN SO THIS IS JUST A
PICTURE OF SOME OF THE BLOOD
PRESSURE WAVEFORMS WE LOOK AT
SO YOU CAN SEE SOME OF THESE
BLOOD PRESSURE REALLY DROPS
REALLY, REALLY QUICKLY.
THE DASH LINE IS WHEN I SIT
THEM UP SO ALL I DID WAS SET
THEM UP AND THEIR BLOOD
PRESSURE DROPPED ABOUT 40
MILLIMETERS OF MERCURY ON THIS
BOTTOM ONE WE SQUEEZE THEIR LEG
AND YOU CAN SEE A SPIKE IN
BLOOD PRESSURE ABOUT THIRTY
FIVE MILLIMETERS OF MERCURY
THESE AND THESE SPIKES AND
DROPS LEAD TO A MUCH HIGHER
STROKE RISK FOR THOSE WITH
SPINAL CORD INJURY.
THE BIG ISSUE WITH SPINAL CORD
INJURY IS THERE'S NO NO
MEDICATION FOR THESE BLOOD
PRESSURE WAVEFORMS WHEN YOU
TREAT THE DROPS AND THE BLOOD
PRESSURE YOU MAKE THE SPIKES
WORSE WHEN YOU TREAT THE SPIKES
YOU MAKE THE DROPS WORSE.
SO THERE'S REALLY NOTHING
THAT'S THAT'S REALLY WELL
STUDIED.
SO JUST TO GIVE YOU A I CAN
SKIP THROUGH THE REST JUST TO
GIVE YOU A PICTURE SO THE GREEN
AND RED ARROWS HERE THAT ARE ON
THE TOP CORNER ARE THE
DIRECTIONS THAT WE WANT THE
RESULTS TO GO ON THE LEFT HAND
SIDE YOU CAN SEE IN OUR HYPOXIA
GROUP WE HAVE A FORTY TWO
PERCENT REDUCTION IN THE SPIKES
IN BLOOD PRESSURE AND YOU CAN
SEE THAT IN SYSTOLIC AND
DIASTOLIC BLOOD PRESSURE AND
THE NEXT ONE SO THESE ARE THE
DROPS AND BLOOD PRESSURE.
SO THE MORE NEGATIVE THE WORSE
IT IS.
SO YOU CAN SEE OUR GROUP HAD
REALLY LARGE DROPS IN BLOOD
PRESSURE WITH VERY SIGNIFICANT
IMPROVEMENTS IN BLOOD PRESSURE
CONTROL.
SO THESE ARE REALLY, REALLY
GOOD.
THE THE DOCUMENT THAT I HAD
SAID I COULD GIVE SOME SCIENCE
TO THIS BUT I DON'T THINK I
HAVE ENOUGH TIME FOR THIS.
THIS IS OUR BIG COMPLEX WAY FOR
ME TO TELL YOU THAT WHEN I MAKE
SOMEBODY SLIGHTLY HYPOXIC EVERY
DAY FOR TWENTY FOUR MINUTES IS
WHAT IT TOTALS OUT TO BE THAT
THIS CHANGES THE WAY THAT THE
BRAIN ALLOWS THE NEURONS TO
COMMUNICATE THAT IMPROVES BLOOD
PRESSURE CONTROL AND MOTOR
FUNCTION FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH
SPINAL CORD INJURY AND WE THINK
THIS IS THE SAME FOR THOSE THAT
HAVE PARKINSON'S DISEASE OR
MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS OR EVEN JUST
INDIVIDUALS AS THEY THEY AGE.
SO RIGHT NOW IT SEEMS LIKE WE
HAVE SOME REALLY GOOD EVIDENCE
THAT IT IMPROVES BLOOD PRESSURE
CONTROL AND HOPEFULLY WE'RE
LOOKING TO EXPAND OUR NETWORK
INTO THE DISABILITY NETWORK AND
OTHER PATIENT POPULATION SO WE
CAN START TO BRING THIS
INTERVENTION TO A LOT OF PEOPLE
AND SEE WHAT TYPE
OF IMPROVEMENTS WE CAN HAVE.
SO ANY ANY QUESTIONS THANK YOU
SO MUCH DENHA DO WE HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS FROM ANY OF THE
COMMISSIONERS AT THIS TIME ALSO
JUST HAVE A FINAL QUESTION.
YEAH, GO AHEAD, LARRY.
AND THE QUESTION IS I I DON'T
KNOW IF YOU CAN EMAIL
CANDIDATES OR WHATEVER BUT I'M
KIND OF CURIOUS AND YOU KNOW,
YOU DON'T HAVE TO ANSWER AND
THAT'S A BIG THING.
I WANT TO ASK ME SOMETHING
ABOUT HOW THE YOUR MITOCHONDRIA
INTERACT WITH THAT BECAUSE I DO
HAVE PHYSIOLOGY DEGREE AND I'M
KIND OF WONDERING WHAT'S THE
ABSOLUTE YEAH.
>> I THINK THE MITOCHONDRIA IS
WHAT THE GOAL WHAT THE FINAL
GOAL IS GOING TO LOOK LIKE.
>> YEAH.
SO I'M OUT OF OUT ON A LIMB ON
THIS.
THERE'S NOT A LOT TON
OF SUPPORTING EVIDENCE DIRECTLY
BUT IT'S ALL FROM A BUNCH
OF INDIRECT STUFF AND MAINLY
FROM EXERCISE PHYSIOLOGY
LITERATURE BECAUSE THAT'S MY MY
OTHER TWO DEGREES.
I HAVE A BACHELOR'S DEGREE AND
MASTER'S DEGREE IN EXERCISE
PHYSIOLOGY SO IT COMES FROM
EXERCISE ADAPTATIONS BUT I CAN
DO THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
YUP.
SO MUCH.
AND ALSO JUST TO LET EVERYONE
KNOW I DID SEND OUT THE
POWERPOINT PRESENTATION TO THE
COMMISSIONER.
SO IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO GET IN
CONTACT WITH GENO OR THE LAB,
THE CONTACT INFORMATION IS
INCLUDED IN THAT.
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH AGAIN FOR
COMING.
THANK YOU.
>> ALREADY MOVING ALONG WE HAVE
NO LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND
DISABLED AND IF I SAY YOUR NAME
WRONG PLEASE LET ME KNOW.
LUCRETIA DAVIS I EVERYONE ON
THAT'S OK PEOPLE IT'S HARD TO
KNOW WHETHER TO DO.
Q YOU LIKE QUEEN OR Q YOU LIKE
KI SO IT'S ACTUALLY A SOFT Q
YOU SO THANK YOU FOR THAT
INTRODUCTION.
MY NAME IS LUCRETIA DAVIS.
I AM FILLING IN TODAY FOR KATIE
UNKOVIC.
I WORK FOR THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY AND WE DO
ADMINISTER THE WASHTENAW
LIBRARY FOR THE BLIND AND PRINT
DISABLED.
SO WITH THAT SERVICE IT STRIVES
TO HELP INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
BLIND AND LOW VISION OR ANYONE
WHO STRUGGLES TO READ STANDARD
PRINT TRY TO GET MATERIALS IN
ALTERNATIVE FORMATS SUCH AS
BRAILLE DIGITAL BOOKS,
MAGAZINES ON CARTRIDGES, MAIL,
LARGE PRINT, SO ON AND SO FORTH
AND ALSO TO IN ADDITION TO THAT
WE DO A LARGE VENDOR FAIR EVERY
YEAR IN JUNE FIRST JUNE CALLED
VISIONS AND WE BRING VENDORS IN
FOR ALL AROUND THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN INTO THE BUILDING
TO TALK TO INDIVIDUALS WHO WANT
TO KNOW ABOUT TECHNOLOGY AND
SERVICES FOR THE BLIND VISUALLY
IMPAIRED AND PHYSICALLY
DISABLED.
SO IT RUNS FOR ABOUT FOUR OR
FIVE HOURS ON WHATEVER DAY WE
HAVE IT ON IN JUNE AND IT'S A
REALLY NICE EVENT.
>> WE HAVE A HUGE TURNOUT.
USUALLY WE GET OVER A THOUSAND
PEOPLE THAT COME IN AND VISIT
AND SO IF YOU OR ANYONE YOU
KNOW OF WOULD LIKE TO BE A
VENDOR, PLEASE REACH OUT TO US
W.L. BPD AT A DIALOG SO THAT WE
CAN PUT YOU ON THE LIST THAT WE
COMPILE EVERY YEAR OF PEOPLE TO
INVITE WE COME THE HOT DOGS YES
THEY DO HAVE DELICIOUS HAD OUR
COMPANY IS CALLED ROAD DOGS AND
THEY ACTUALLY TRAVEL ALL OVER
SOME OF THEIR HOT DOGS.
OK SO JUST WANT TO KIND OF TALK
TO YOU A LITTLE BIT ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING EVENTS THAT WE HAVE.
ONE OF THEM IS CALLED THE HEAT
PRESS OPEN LAB THAT'S GOING TO
BE ON TUESDAY SEPTEMBER TWENTY
THIRD FROM SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY
IT'S GOING TO BE AT THE
DOWNTOWN LIBRARY IN THE SECRET
LAB SO SECRET LAB IS ON OUR
LOWER LEVEL IT'S AND THE VERY
BOTTOM OF THE BASICALLY LIKE
THE BASEMENT AREA OF THE
LIBRARY.
SO A LOT OF PEOPLE DON'T
REALIZE THAT WE HAVE THAT SPACE
DOWN THERE BUT THAT IS WHERE WE
HOLD THINGS LIKE THAT WHERE WE
DEAL WITH HEAT AND OTHER FUN
ELEMENTS.
SO A LITTLE DESCRIPTION ABOUT
THAT IS JOIN US IN THE SECRET
LAB FOR OPEN USE OF THE
LIBRARY'S HEAT PRESS, BRING A
DESIGN OR COME WITH AN IDEA.
WE'LL HAVE LAPTOPS SET UP FOR
OPTIMIZING YOUR DESIGN WHICH
WILL BE CUT INTO SINGLE COLOR
HEAT TRANSFER VINYL USING A
SILHOUETTE CAMEO TOTE BAGS WILL
BE PROVIDED OR BRING YOUR OWN
T-SHIRT OR OTHER FABRIC
MATERIAL TO PRESSURE DESIGN
ONTO AND THEN THE SECOND EVENT
IS OUR IDLE EQUIPMENT DISPOSAL
SALE AND THAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN
ON SATURDAY SEPTEMBER TWENTY
SEVEN FROM 10 A.M. TO THREE
P.M. AND THAT'S GOING TO BE
OFFSITE LOCATION CARD ARCHIVES
ACQUISITIONS AND LOGISTICS
FACILITY.
>> IT'S LOCATED AT TWO SIX FIVE
PARKLAND PLAZA AND SO WITH THAT
IT'S IT'S GOING TO BE
FURNITURE, COMPUTERS, MONITORS,
SHELVING AND MUCH, MUCH MORE SO
BASICALLY TRYING TO MOVE THE
OLD THINGS OUT AND GET SOME NEW
THINGS AND ALL ITEMS ONE HOUR,
ONE DOLLAR YOU CDS AND DVDS ARE
AVAILABLE FIVE FOR ONE DOLLAR
AND BOTH CASH AND CREDIT CARDS
ARE ACCEPTED.
ALL ITEMS ARE SOLD AS IS AND
ALSO OUR FINAL ITEMS MUST BE
TAKEN AT TIME OF SALE OR PICKED
UP BETWEEN 10:00 A.M. TO TWO
P.M. ON SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 28TH.
>> SO YOU CAN GET A GREAT DEAL
ON SOME QUALITY STUFF AND THEN
LAST BUT NOT LEAST WE HAVE AN
EVENT UP CYCLE POSTER
NOTEBOOK'S THAT'S BEING HELD
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30TH FROM
SIX TO SEVEN THIRTY AGAIN AT
THAT DOWNTOWN LIBRARY THE
SECRET LAB AREA.
WITH THAT YOU CAN DROP IN TO
MAKE POCKET NOTEBOOKS FEATURING
POSTERS FROM ADLS PAST EXPO
EVENTS.
>> YOU CAN CHOOSE YOUR
COVER AND PAPER STAPLE AND
FOLLOW AND WILL TRIM THE EDGES
FOR A FINISHED LOOK LOOK.
OK, SO TO GET MATERIALS FROM
THE WASHTENAW LIBRARY FOR THE
BLIND AND PRINT DISABLED
PATRONS CAN ORDER DIGITAL
CARTRIDGES BY CALLING SEVEN
THREE FOUR THREE TWO SEVEN FOUR
TWO TWO FOUR OR EMAILING W.L.
BPD AT ADR OR ALSO TO SIGN UP
FOR THE BRAILLE AND AUDIO
READING DOWNLOAD SERVICE ALSO
KNOWN AS BART OR TO DOWNLOAD
YOUR OWN BOOKS YOU CAN VISIT
ANNELLS VAHDAT LLC DOT GOV OR
CALL US AND WE CAN ASSIST WITH
THE APPLICATION.
>> AND THEN LASTLY I'VE GOT
SOME BOOKS THAT ARE HAVE BEEN
RECENTLY ADDED TO THAT BAAD
DATABASE AND THEY HAVE HUNDREDS
OF THOUSANDS OF COURSE THESE
ARE JUST A COUPLE.
ONE IS CALLED HUMAN NATURE NINE
WAYS TO FEEL ABOUT OUR CHANGING
PLANET BY KATE MARVEL AND THE
BOOK IS A CAPTIVATING
EXPLORATION OF CLIMATE CHANGE
THAT USES NINE DIFFERENT
EMOTIONS TO BETTER UNDERSTAND
THE SCIENCE, HISTORY AND FUTURE
OF OUR EVOLVING PLANET
SCIENTISTS KATE MARVEL HAS SEEN
THE WORLD IN BEFORE SOMETIMES
SEVERAL TIMES A DAY IN THE
COMPUTER MODEL SHE USES TO
STUDY CLIMATE CHANGE IT'S EASY
TO SIMULATE RISING TEMPERATURES
CADASTRE OUTCOMES AND BLEAK
FUTURES.
BUT CLIMATE CHANGE ISN'T JUST
HAPPENING IN THOSE MODELS.
IT'S HAPPENING HERE TOO TO THE
ONLY GOOD PLANET IN THE
UNIVERSE.
IT'S HAPPENING TO US AND SHE
HAS FEELINGS ABOUT THAT.
HUMAN NATURE IS A DEEPLY FELT
INQUIRY INTO OUR RAPIDLY
CHANGING EARTH.
IN EACH CHAPTER MARVEL USES A
DIFFERENT EMOTION TO EXPLORE
THE SCIENCE AND STORIES BEHIND
CLIMATE CHANGE AS EXPECTED,
THERE IS ANGER, FEAR AND GRIEF
BUT ALSO WONDER, HOPE AND LOVE
WITH HER SINGULAR VOICE, MARVEL
TAKES US ON A SOARING JOURNEY
ONE FILLED WITH MYTHOLOGY,
PHYSICS, WITCHCRAFT, BAD MOVIES
,VOLCANOES, ROMAN EMPERORS,
SEQUOIA GROVES AND THE MANY
SMALL MIRACLES OF NATURE WE
USUALLY TAKE FOR GRANTED.
AND THEN THE NEXT TITLE IS
CALLED JUST BECAUSE I AM BLIND
DOES NOT MEAN I CAN'T SEE AN
AUTOBIOGRAPHICAL MEMOIR BY
LINDA JOY WORTH THOUGH AND THE
SYNOPSIS FOR THIS IS THOUGH
LINDA JOY IS BLIND.
THE UNDERLYING THEME OF THE
BOOK IS NOT REALLY HER
BLINDNESS BUT MORE THE
EXPERIENCE WITH A SIGHTED WORLD
THAT CAN'T SEE FROM HER
PERSPECTIVE SHE SHARE STORIES
WHICH SHINE
LIGHT ON HER
DIVERSE EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCES
COLLEGE MARRIAGE, CHILDREN
MUSIC, DANCE THEATER, TRAVEL
AND CAREER.
WE BECOME AWARE OF THE
CHALLENGES SHE FACED
ADAPTATIONS SHE HAD TO MAKE THE
BARRIERS WHICH SHE OVERCAME AND
THE DREAMS SHE REALIZED.
>> OH OK.
SO THAT'S THAT'S WHAT I HAVE.
DOES ANYBODY HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
FOR ME?
I AM ONE.
OK AND THAT WOULD BE THE WHAT
WELL WHAT ARE YOU GOING IN WHEN
OH SO THAT IS SO WE HOLD THIS
ABOUT ONCE A YEAR IT'S CALLED
AN IDLE EQUIPMENT DISPOSAL SALE
SO WHEN WE HAVE ITEMS FROM THE
LIBRARY THAT WE CAN NO LONGER
USE LIKE THOSE MONITORS
FURNITURE SHELVING THINGS LIKE
THAT THEN THEY GO INTO A
SPECIAL SALE AND USUALLY IT IS
SOMEPLACE OFFSITE IN THIS CASE
IS THAT PART THAT TWO SIX FIVE
PARKLAND PLAZA WHICH IS A NEW
BUILDING THAT WE ACQUIRED AND
SO THINGS ARE USUALLY
DISCOUNTED VERY LOW.
>> THE LIKE I SAID THEY'RE
USUALLY FIVE FOR A DOLLAR OR
JUST A DOLLAR A PIECE.
BUT BASICALLY LIKE I SAID,
ANYTHING THAT WE CAN NO LONGER
USE DOESN'T MEAN THAT IT'S IN
BAD CONDITION THING.
IT'S JUST THAT WE ARE MOVING
THAT OUT SO THAT WE CAN, YOU
KNOW, HAVE OTHER THINGS AND WE
ALLOW THE THE PUBLIC TO BE ABLE
TO TAKE THAT IF THEY WOULD LIKE
IT.
>> WELL, THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
DID YOU WANT ME TO REPEAT THE
DATE FOR IT AND TIME?
YEAH THAT WOULD BE THAT WOULD
BE GOOD FOR ME.
OK, PERFECT.
SO YEAH THAT'S GOING TO BE
SATURDAY, SEPTEMBER 27 AND IT'S
GOING TO RUN FROM 10:00 A.M. TO
THREE P.M. BUT IF YOU CAN'T
TAKE YOUR ITEMS ON THAT DAY YOU
CAN ALSO PICK THEM UP FROM
10:00 A.M. TO 2:00 P.M. ON THE
NEXT DAY SUNDAY SEPTEMBER.
>> TWENTY EIGHTH.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
YOU'RE WELCOME.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> OK, THANKS FOR HAVING ME.
OF COURSE.
NEXT WE HAVE THE DISABILITY
NETWORK WASHTENAW MONROE
LIVINGSTON WITH ANDREA ANDREA
TAKE IT AWAY.
>> THINK A LOT.
I JUST WANT TO HIGHLIGHT A FEW
OF OUR UPCOMING FALL FALL
ACTIVITIES TODAY.
WELL LET'S GET STARTED WITH
SECRETS AND SODAS.
JOIN US FOR AN UNFORGETTABLE
EVENING MYSTERY LAUGHTER AND
FIZZY FUN COSTUMES ARE
ENCOURAGED EACH IS EIGHTEEN
PLUS ARE WELCOME.
>> THAT EVENT THURSDAY,
OCTOBER 2ND FROM SIX TO EIGHT
P.M. AND OUR WASHTENAW OFFICE
HERE IN ANN ARBOR REGISTRATION
IS REQUIRED.
>> YOU CAN DO THAT BY CALLING
OUR OFFICE OR GOING TO TINY YOU
DOT COM FORWARD SLASH SECRET.
SO TO US AGAIN THAT'S THURSDAY
,OCTOBER 2ND FROM SIX TO EIGHT
P.M. WE ALSO HAVE AN UPCOMING
HALLOWEEN TRUNK OR TREAT AND
DANCE PARTY AGES 14 PLUS ON
FRIDAY OCTOBER TWENTY FOURTH
THE TRUNK OR TREAT IS FROM FIVE
THIRTY TO SIX THIRTY.
>> THE DANCES FROM SIX TO EIGHT
CAN COSTUMES DANCING AND FOOD
FOR FUN FOR AGES FOURTEEN PLUS
VOLUNTEERS WILL BE DECKED OUT
TRUNK'S WILL BE FULL OF TREATS
AND A DANCE FLOOR.
WE READY FOR YOUR BEST MOVES
BRING YOUR FRIENDS FEEL FREE TO
DRESS UP IF YOU LIKE AND LET'S
CELEBRATE HALLOWEEN TOGETHER
REGISTRATION REQUIRED AGAIN YOU
CAN DO THAT BY CALLING OUR
OFFICE AT SEVEN THREE FOUR NINE
SEVEN ONE ZERO TO SEVEN SEVEN
OR GOING TO TINY YOU ARE DOT
COM FORWARD SLASH DENHA
HALLOWEEN TWENTY FIVE WE ALSO
HAVE A CURRENT OPEN CALL FOR
DISABLED ARTISTS FOR A JURY
MARKET WITH NO TABLE FEE.
THE SUBMISSION DEADLINE FOR
THAT IS OCTOBER THE TWELFTH AND
THE WE MARKET IS GOING TO BE ON
TWO SEPARATE DATES SATURDAY
NOVEMBER 15TH FROM ONE TO FOUR
P.M. AND ON SATURDAY DECEMBER
6TH US FROM ONE TO FOUR P.M.
AND OUR WASHTENAW OFFICE ALSO
ON SATURDAY NOVEMBER 15TH IN
CONJUNCTION WITH OPEN MARKET WE
WILL BE HOSTING A COMMUNITY
HARVEST GATHERING SO COME ENJOY
SOME GOOD FOOD AND GOOD LAUGHS
WITH THE COMMUNITY AND YOUR
FRIENDS IF YOU'RE LOOKING TO
ENTER IN THE JURY MARKET EXCEPT
ACCEPTABLE SUBMISSIONS WOULD
INCLUDE THINGS LIKE POTTERY
CARDS, JEWELRY, ORIGINAL
DRAWINGS OR PAINTINGS OR ART
PRINTS OR PHOTOGRAPHY, SMALL
SCULPTURES MORE MORE
INFORMATION CAN BE FOUND ON OUR
WEBSITE OR BY CALLING OUR
OFFICE OR YOU CAN REACH OUT TO
OUR ARTS AND REC MANAGER CLAIRE
AT CLEAR AT THE END WME OR
YEAH.
AND THEN FINALLY THE HALL
FARMERS GATHERING AGAIN IS
SATURDAY NOVEMBER THE FIFTEENTH
LUNCHES FROM ELEVEN TO ONE THE
HOLIDAY MARKET WHAT THE ARTISTS
WILL BE FROM ONE TO FOUR AS
WELL AS A BIG REVEAL OF OUR
ABBA CELEBRATION AND COMMUNITY
ART PROJECT.
MARK YOUR CALENDARS BRING YOUR
FRIEND TO COME CELEBRATE
COMMUNITY CREATIVITY AND
CONNECTION WITH US AGAIN.
ALL OF THIS INFORMATION AND
MUCH MORE CAN BE FOUND ON OUR
WEBSITE DENHA MELLBERG YOU CAN
CALL OUR OFFICE AT SEVEN THREE
FOUR NINE SEVEN ONE ZERO TWO
SEVEN SEVEN OR YOU CAN EMAIL
INFO AT N.W. DOT OR AND WITH
THAT I'M HAPPY TO TRY TO ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS WE GET BOTH
DISCUSSED IN NOVEMBER.
I'LL LOOK INTO THAT FOR US
LARRY THANK YOU SO OK.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHTY NEXT WE HAVE
PARTNERS ACCESS WITH LARRY KING
LIVE WITH ME.
WELL SUGAR OF NINE AND WE WE WE
DISCUSSED A COUPLE OF DIFFERENT
THINGS.
WE DISCUSSED AND THIS HAS BEEN
DISCUSSED BEFORE AND WE
REQUESTED WE REQUESTED HE
REQUESTED THAT WE BRING UP
PRETTY SOON YELLOW TAPE WHAT
THE YELLOW TAPE OR A YELLOW
LINE IN FRONT OF THE LIBRARY
STAIRS ESPECIALLY THE DOWNTOWN
LIBRARY SO THAT YOU CAN SEE
PEOPLE WITH SOME VISION CAN SEE
A BRIGHT YELLOW THING SO THAT
THEY DON'T YOU KNOW, DON'T TRIP
DOWN THE STAIRS LIKE AT THE TOP
AND BOTTOM OF THE STAIRS SO
THAT THEY CAN FIND THE STAIRS
ETC. AND AT THE TOP AND BOTTOM
OF AND I ALSO SUGGESTED THAT
THAT COULD BE A A ROUGH TAPE OR
SOMETHING OR HAVE A ROUGH
SURFACE TO IT SO THAT PEOPLE
WITH CANES COULD ALSO SENSE
THAT AS WELL AS THE PEOPLE WITH
YELLOW WITH VISION CAN SENSE
IT.
SO THAT WAS ONE THING THAT WAS
BROUGHT UP AND DISCUSSED BEFORE
UNDER LIBRARY CHANGES NOTHING
HAS HAPPENED SO WE MIGHT WANT
TO READDRESS SEX.
WE THOUGHT THAT WAS A GOOD IDEA
AND THERE WAS ALSO HE ALSO
MENTIONED THAT A CONCERT VENUE
WAS MENTIONED BUT WE'RE NOT
SURE WHICH ONE THAT IS AND TO
LOOK INTO THAT AND THEN WE ALSO
TALKED ABOUT WANTING A GROUP
PHOTO DONE ON EITHER IN FRONT
OF CITY OF CITY HALL OR IN
COUNCIL CHAMBERS PROBABLY
DEPENDING ON THE WEATHER.
SO WE WILL WANT TO SET DOWN I
DON'T KNOW IF WE'RE GOING TO
ADDRESS IT TODAY BUT PROBABLY
BE ADDRESSED NOT TO FORGET TO
COLD IF WE WANT TO DO IT
OUTSIDE AND THAT'S ALL I HAVE
FOR THAT REPORT.
THANK YOU SO MUCH, LARRY.
DO WE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
LARRY REGARDING PARTNERS AND
EXES SAYING THAT WE WILL MOVE
RIGHT ALONG TO COMMUNITY
ENGAGEMENT WITH COMMISSIONER
HAWKINS?
OK, I'LL YES, I'M RIGHT HERE,
LARRY.
SO I HAD AN UPDATE FROM MELISSA
BONDIE IN REGARDS TO THE ANN
ARBOR OCCLUSIVE.
I HAD ALSO I I THINK KATHLEEN I
PUT YOU ON AN EMAIL THIS
AFTERNOON BECAUSE I HAD JUST
GOTTEN SOME INFORMATION ON THE
POSSIBLE LIKE FILL IN HOSTING
OPPORTUNITY.
SO I SHE SHOULD BE FOLLOWING UP
WITH YOU ON THAT.
SO THE GOOD NEWS IS THAT ON
ENDED WHEN FELICITY FARNSWORTH
VIDEO AWARD WHICH I SHARED WITH
KENNEDY SO THAT WILL BE IN OUR
MEETING MINUTES AS WELL.
>> THEY HAVE THEY HAVE FILMED
UPCOMING UPCOMING EPISODES SO
AUGUST SHOW HOW BAD SPEROS
PLACE.
SO CLAIRE WAS AWAY FOR HOSTING
IT AT THAT TIME.
THEY'RE STILL WORKING ON
FINALIZING GAS FOR OCTOBER SO
THAT IS ALL AVAILABLE ON THEIR
YOUTUBE
CHANNEL UNDER IN OUR
INCLUSIVE.
SO I HOPE WE HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO SEE KATHLEEN
FILAN SOON.
I THANK YOU SO MUCH.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FROM
COMMISSIONERS AT THIS TIME?
OK, THANK YOU RACHEL.
MOVING ON TODAY, OF COURSE
MOVING ON WE HAVE RECRUITING
ACTIVITY WITH LARRAKEYAH AND
THAT IS ME AGAIN AS FAR AS I
UNDERSTAND WE HAVE TWO OPENINGS
FOR FOR THE COMMISSION AND WE
DO HAVE ONE APPLICATION THAT'S
IN MODE TO BE REVIEWED.
>> BUT WE ARE GOING TO DO THAT.
I THINK WE CHAIR COMES BACK SO
WE SHOULD WE REVIEW THAT NEXT
MONTH AND IF ANY OTHER
APPLICATIONS COME IN WE'LL LET
YOU KNOW AND WILL TRY TO GET A
HOLD OF THEM AND PRESENT THEM
TO THE COMMISSION
.
>> THANK YOU.
ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT RECRUITMENT
ACTIVITY FOR THE COMMISSION
RIGHT NOW?
>> OK, PERFECT.
NEXT WE WILL MOVE ON TO MORE
INFORMATION FROM LARRY WITH THE
TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION.
>> YEAH, I'LL HURRY UP AND GO
THROUGH THIS.
I GOT TO I SORT OF GOT TO LUNCH
BUT I'LL GO THROUGH QUICK
BECAUSE THERE WAS A LOT
OF THINGS AND AUGUST AUGUST WAS
CANCELED BECAUSE NOT ENOUGH
PEOPLE WERE IN TOWN BUT ARE
ARGUING MEANING WE HAD SOME
QUESTIONS AND CONCERNS ABOUT,
YOU KNOW, THE COMMISSION
FOCUSING MORE ON PROJECTS THAN
SAFETY.
>> WE ALSO HAD A CONCERN ABOUT
SO WE'RE GOING TO MEET
VICENZINO DEMANDS AND WE ARE
TALKING ABOUT THE PACKER UPDATE
HAVE PACKAGE BEING UPDATED AND
THEY TURNED IT INTO A TIER ONE
CLASS WHICH MEANS THAT IT'LL
GET MORE TREATMENT THAN SOME
OF THE OTHER ROADS.
I'M NOT EXACTLY SURE HOW THAT
WORKS BUT I'VE BEEN TRYING TO
PAY ATTENTION TO IT AND THEY'RE
PUTTING SOME APC'S FOURTH AND
FIFTH IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA AND
THEY'RE PUTTING BUBBLE TIME
THERE.
SO GUYS, YOU CAN'T TELL AND
THEY'RE GOING TO DO SOME
STRUCTURE FROM MAY TO STATE AND
THAT'S IN THE SPRING OF TWENTY
TWENTY SIX.
NORTHVIEW PROJECT IS A TIER TWO
WHICH IS THEY'RE GOING TO DO
BASICALLY THE WHOLE STREET OVER
THERE ALSO THERE SO THERE'S A
LOT OF STUFF GOING ON.
WASHINGTON IS IN THERE UP BY IN
WASHINGTON AND IN LATE SPRING
OF TWENTY TWENTY SIX AND I ALSO
TALKED ABOUT OUR HOME OUR ISSUE
ABOUT 3RD STREET AND THE THIRD
STREET WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
LAST YEAR WE TALKED ABOUT THIRD
STREET STEPS AND INTRODUCED
THEM BECAUSE THEY'RE IN THE
MIDDLE OF THE SIDEWALK AND WE'D
LIKE TO HAVE THAT REMOVED SO
PEOPLE HAVE A STRAIGHT PATH
THROUGH THERE AND THAT'S THE
BOOK THAT'S BEEN PUT ON THE
LIST TO BE DONE.
SO I DON'T KNOW WE JUST DON'T
KNOW AS YOU SAT DOWN SOON BUT
WHO KNOWS WHAT CITY AND THEY'RE
ALL IN THERE AND I ALSO BROUGHT
THE PLYMOUTH ROAD BURN IT TO
THE ATTENTION OF THE COMMISSION
ABOUT PLYMOUTH ROAD AND THE
FACT THAT THERE NEEDS TO BE A
FEW MORE CROSSWALKS ON PLYMOUTH
ROAD WHICH WAS RECEIVED WITH
THE THAT MUCH ENTHUSIASM BUT I
I THINK THERE SHOULD BE MORE UP
THERE AND BUT IT SOUNDS LIKE
PROBABLY IT WON'T HAPPEN BUT
THAT'S IT FOR AND THEN THE NEXT
MONTH WE HAD PUBLIC COMMENT AND
THEN THEY MENTIONED THEY HAVE A
MAKING ISLANDS THROUGH THE
THROUGH DIFFERENT ROADS TO SLOW
DOWN TRAFFIC TO MAKE EASIER
SUPPOSEDLY TO MAKE IT EASIER
CROSS AND WE HAD A I'M TRYING
TO READ THIS WE HAD A WE HAD
SOME MORE ON THE CROSSWALK
DESIGN IDEA.
THEY'RE CATEGORIZING WHICH ONES
AND I'M NOT EXACTLY SURE HOW
THAT'S WORKING BUT THEY'RE
TRYING TO CATEGORIZE A LOT
OF STUFF AND SOME OF THE STUFF
I KNOW SINCE TWO THOUSAND SEVEN
THEY STARTED THIS AND THERE'S
DIFFERENT QUALIFIER CASES FOR
DIFFERENT AREAS LOCATION AND
THAT'S THAT'S ABOUT ALL CAN
REQUEST.
I'LL DO THE REQUEST TO EVALUATE
YOUR CROSSWALK AREA AND SEE
WHAT THEY WANT TO PUT UP THERE
,SEE WHAT IT WHAT IT REQUIRES
.
>> SO THAT'S IT FOR THAT AND
KRY BY CHANCE AND THERE IS ONE
I THINK TONIGHT THE I JUST WANT
TO ASK YOU GUYS PLANNING TO
MEET TONIGHT.
WELL I AM NOT SURE I THINK SO I
JUST GOT A MESSAGE FROM THEM A
LITTLE BIT AGO THAT THE MEETING
WAS CANCELED.
HOWEVER I GOT ANOTHER I.D.
NUMBER SO I'M GUESSING THAT IT
WAS RESCHEDULED FOR THE SAME
TIME UNDER A DIFFERENT DO
ADDRESS.
SO I WILL REPORT ON THAT AS
SOON AS AND IF THERE'S ANYTHING
ELSE WANT ME TO TAKE THERE.
I THINK THERE'S GOING TO BE
DISCUSSING BICYCLE'S WHICH IS
GOING TO BE A LONG, LENGTHY
DISCUSSION I WOULD IMAGINE
BECAUSE THERE ARE LOTS
OF ISSUES WITH BICYCLISTS DOING
THINGS AND DRIVERS BUT ALSO A
BICYCLIST THERE THEY PROBABLY
SHOULDN'T GET AWAY WITH SO OK,
I'LL BRING THAT UP AGAIN.
SO ANYTHING ANYBODY ELSE WOULD
LIKE ME TO BRING UP
SEE OK THEN
WHAT'S THAT'S WHAT'S THE LIST
NEXT WE HAVE THE UNIVERSITY
OF MICHIGAN COUNCIL FOR
DISABILITY CONCERNS MEETING UP
WITH COMMISSIONER SOLOMON.
>> COMMISSIONER SOLOMON HI.
THANKS FOR GIVING ME THE SPACE
THERE HAVE BEEN TO CFTC
MEETINGS SINCE LAST WE MET.
I BELIEVE THE FIRST WAS ON
AUGUST THE 12TH AND JUST TO
ALERT EVERYONE ON THE COMMITTEE
REMIND EVERYONE THESE MEETINGS
ARE ON ZOOME AND THEY ARE OPEN
TO ANYONE WHO WANTS TO ATTEND
AUGUST 12TH SESSION WAS FOCUSED
ON DISABILITY, PRIDE AND
CELEBRATION AND RECOGNITION
OF DISABILITY PRIDE MONTH.
SO THERE WAS A PRESENTATION BY
ANDERSON ON THAT TOPIC WHICH
WAS THE BULK OF THE MEETING
ALONG WITH A FEW ANNOUNCEMENTS
THE SEPTEMBER 9TH MEETING
UNFORTUNATE I COULD NOT ATTEND
DUE TO A SCHEDULING CONFLICT.
THE MEETING MINUTES AND REPORT
ARE NOT YET AVAILABLE BUT I CAN
CERTAINLY SHARE THOSE WITH THE
COMMISSION AT THAT TIME THEY
ARE MADE PUBLIC.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
DO WE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
COMMISSIONER SOLOMON ABOUT THE
COUNCIL UPDATE I'M SEEING NOW?
>> WE WILL CONTINUE ON AT THIS
TIME WE DO NOT HAVE A CHAIR
REPORT FROM CHAIR DAMIAN.
HE DID SEND OUT COMMUNICATIONS
ABOUT HIS ABSENCE TODAY AND HE
DID PROVIDE SOME INFORMATION TO
THE COMMISSION ABOUT SOME
UPCOMING EVENTS.
DID ANYONE HAVE ANY QUESTIONS
ABOUT THAT?
AND IF YOU DID, YOU CAN FEEL
FREE TO TO YOUR DAMAN OR REACH
OUT TO MYSELF IF YOU HAVE ANY
QUESTIONS LONG, LONG, LONG
DISTANCE.
YES.
YOU'RE DAVID.
>> YES.
OK, NEXT WE HAVE ALL THE
BUSINESS AT THIS TIME WE DO NOT
HAVE ANY BUSINESS ON THE AGENDA
BUT ANY COMMISSIONERS HAVE ANY
OLD BUSINESS AT THIS TIME FOR
THE COMMISSION SAYING THEN WE
WILL MOVE ON TO NEW BUSINESS.
WE DO NOT HAVE ANY NEW BUSINESS
ON THE AGENDA BUT ANY
COMMISSIONER HAVE ANY NEW
BUSINESS AT THIS TIME FOR THE
COMMISSION.
>> YOU GUYS ARE SO QUIET I
WOULD I WOULD SUGGEST THAT NEXT
MONTH WE PUT BOTH AND I'LL TRY
TO HAVE INFORMATION ON THE
SCRIPTS ANYWAY AND I THINK WE
SHOULD PUT I THINK WE SHOULD
RELEASE BUT THE TWO ITEMS
DISCUSSED AS AN ACCESS
COMMITTEE AND THE NEW BUSINESS
I'M KIND OF WAITING FOR
COMMISSIONER DAVID TO COME BACK
TO PARTICIPATE IN THAT BECAUSE
I KNOW SO IT'S SO GOOD AT BEING
INTERESTED IN THAT AND I THINK
HE'D REALLY LIKE TO BE A PART
OF THAT THAT ORGANIZING THE
PHOTO SESSION ON THAT WHATEVER
IT IS, IT'S A PHOTO S.A.S. OR
JUST A PICTURE AND A HE'S ALL
FOR IT.
I WAIT I'M KIND OF IN FAVOR
OF WAITING FOR HIM TO PUT DOWN
ON THE NEXT MONTH
WE CAN ASK
FOR SOUNDS GOOD TO ANY
COMMISSIONER ANY QUESTIONS
ABOUT THAT?
OK, ALL RIGHT.
MOVING ON.
WE ARE ALMOST THE END
EVERYBODY.
NEXT WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY
COMMUNICATIONS ON THE AGENDA
BUT ANY COMMISSIONER HAVING
COMMUNICATION TO SHARE WITH THE
COMMISSION AT THIS TIME I'M SO
HAPPY TO SEE EVERYBODY.
>> I GUESS I'LL SAY THAT THE
VERY GOOD SMILES THEN WE GO
THANK YOU.
>> WE'RE WE'RE BACK TO THE YOU
YOU SAY STARTING WITH A LOT
OF THINGS HAPPENING VERY SOON.
SO GET OUT THERE AND GET
ACCOMPLISHED.
SOME THINGS OVER THE FALL AND
WINTER ARE VERY I'M VERY
INTERESTED IN COORDINATING WITH
OUR COORDINATOR AND IF WE CAN
WORK A LITTLE MORE CLOSELY WITH
HER AND SOME OTHER THINGS SO
I'M GLAD TO BE BACK.
>> I WONDERFUL RIGHT NOW WE
HAVE COME GUESS THE MOST
IMPORTANT PART OF THE MEETING
ADJOURNMENT.
>> I'LL LET YOU DO THAT AND WE
WOULD LIKE TO.
ALL RIGHT.
ALSO JERVEY LET'S SAYING THAT
NOBODY ELSE IS INVOLVED FOR A
GERMAN.
I GUESS I WILL TAKE THE
POSITION OF MAKING A MOTION TO
ADJOURN THIS MEETING AND I
SECOND THAT LARRY IT'S RACHEL
I'LL HUH RIGHT.
I SAY THAT I ALL OPPOSED WELL
GOODBYE.
>> I SEE BECAUSE THAT